50 may also be used as a MIDI-con-
trolled multitimbral expander. Two 
timbres and the rhythm sounds may be 
used through three MIDI channels; if 
the guitar is used at the same time it will 
take precedence over the other timbres 
as necessary. I wish it would’ve offered 
eight different timbres like the D-110, 
but I guess you can’t have everything. 
DOCUMENTATION 
We’ve talked about some of the things 
we like about the GR-50, so this is a good 
point to bring up our main gripe: the 
manual. Although most of the informa¬ 
tion you might want is there, it can be 
very difficult to find it, and then to un¬ 
derstand exactly what to do. As with 
most of today’s feature-packed synths 
and samplers, programming the unit is 
so complicated that writing a clear and 
concise manual is very difficult, though 
not impossible. 
When we spoke to Roland, they 
agreed that the manual could be im¬ 
proved, and said they are working hard 
to that end. If you have trouble with 
Roland’s manual, the best alternative is 
to get one of the after-market books on 
the D-110 (as far as we know, no one has 
a book on the GR-50 yet) . This will give 
you a good background in program¬ 
ming and should make Roland’s manual 
much easier to comprehend. 
THE CONCLUSION 
We could go on talking about the GR-
50 at considerable length, but this 
should give you a good idea of its capa¬ 
bilities. The end result is the product of 
some hard choices, and some compro¬ 
mises. The unit is not perfect; wired-fret 
or ultrasonic units may track marginally 
better, for example, but it’s hard to beat 
the GR-50’s combination of built-in 
sounds, MIDI capabilities, and especially 
the ability to play from your own axe, 
switching and mixing straight guitar 
with the synth output. Roland’s latest 
product opens the door to some very 
interesting possibilities for the creative 
guitarist. 
Formerly technical director for the 
C.E. Hammond Group in England, Mike 
Sharp runs a medical electronics company by 
day but is more often found uniting, playing, 
or “working” in the studio. 
Bill Burns is an 
electronics engineer. Formerly with the BBC in 
London, he now works as a computer systems 
designer and consultant. 
IBM MIDI for LeSS 
The PC MIDI Card, si 19. 
Intelligent MIDI interface for IBM PC/XT/AT. 
MPU-4O1 compatible, of course. MIDI adapter 
included. 
Music Quest, Inc. 
(214) 881-7408 
2504 Avenue K, Suite 500-492, Plano, TX 75074 
FOR VALUE, SELHTDON & CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
DISCOVER THE PLUS! 
October 1989 
Electronic Musician 
101 
